[doc] PR for Improve Transactions section in Explore (#16039)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/explore/transactions/distributed-transactions-ysql.md

);
```

> Insert sample data into the table:

Author: changed

The following diagram shows the sequence of events that occur when a transaction is running:

![Distributed transaction write path](/images/architecture/txn/distributed_txn_write_path.svg)

### Scalability

Because all nodes of the universe can process transactions by becoming transaction coordinators, horizontal scalability can be achieved by distributing the queries evenly across the nodes of the universe.

### Resilience

Each update performed as a part of the transaction is replicated across multiple nodes for resilience and persisted on disk. This ensures that the updates made as a part of a transaction that has been acknowledged as successful to the end user is resilient even if failures occur.

### Concurrency control

> [Concurrency control](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concurrency_control) in databases ensures that multiple transactions can execute concurrently while preserving data integrity. Concurrency control is essential for correctness in environments where two or more transactions can access the same data at the same time. The two primary mechanisms to achieve concurrency control are optimistic and pessimistic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Concurrency control](../../../architecture/transactions/concurrency-control/) in databases ensures that multiple transactions can execute concurrently while preserving data integrity. Concurrency control is essential for correctness in environments where two or more transactions can access the same data at the same time. The two primary mechanisms to achieve concurrency control are optimistic and pessimistic.
```

Author: changed
